Now we started working on the input and it doesn't look too bad but we want to make sure that users
can only enter numbers that are digits only and that we can't enter a dot here or a comma or paste in
some non numeric content for that.
We of course need to validate what the user entered here.
Now for validating what the user entered I want to as I showed it before already basically saved the
value.
The user entered on every keystroke and feed it back into the input but after every keystroke I also
want to validate the input to make sure that we're having a valid value there.
So basically a number for that first of all we need to manage some state here in the start game screen
soul import use state and then up here at the beginning of this component all set up my use state call
so register some state and that will be the entered value and even though that will be a number later
technically it is a string at the beginning because all input is just a string and you manually have
to convert this to a number.
And if you want to I will also add a set entered value function here.
The second element we retrieve from that array use state gives us.
And now we can add a constant here which will name no input handler or whatever you want to name it.
This will get the the input text and that's the function because that's just a function storing in this
constant which I want to connect to my input and they're two on change text point at d no input handler
and feed the value back in and that's our entered.
Value.
Now normally we would just say set entered value in here and set the input text to be our new entered
value which we feed back into the input.
But here are actually first of all validate the input.
So what I'll do here is I'll not set my insured value right to the text here.
Instead I'll set it to my input text where I replace and I can call replace because input text will
be a string and that's a normal javascript method that exists on strings where I replace some content
based on a regular expression no regular expressions can be scary but that's a simple one we created
with two forward slashes and in there I'll add square brackets and basically with this expression say
that I'm replacing anything that's not a numbers zero to nine so not a number globally in the entire
text so that means it will not just look for the first hit basically but it will search the entire text
I will replace that
with an empty strings all basically drop any non number of value that's what's happening here and that's
what I store in my new state.
With that we should make sure that the user can't enter anything which is not a number.
So let's check this here on Android.
If I press the comma you'll see that instantly gets removed and that's exactly what we need here.
We only allow no values.
So that's a little bit of validation we have in place here.
It's not all I want though but we're still not done with the input because on Io s if we are in that
input mode and we want to close that keyboard right now that's not really doable.
We can't click outside and close it and it would be nice if we could know to make sure that we can and
that we close to keyboard if the user taps somewhere else.
I will actually wrap the entire view here with a special component provided by react native and that's
the touchable without feedback component.
So component that allows us to register a touch listener without giving any visual feedback because
that's exactly what we need here.
We can wrap our entire screen with this.
So our entire view can be wrapped with this touchable without feedback listener so that in there or
on there we can now register or listen to the press event and when a press happens I want to dismiss
de keyboard and for dad react native gives us a useful API we can import from risk native and that's
to keyboard API that's now not a component but that's the API where we can interact with the native
device itself so to say in this case with the keyboard and here up on a press of this button I want
to fire a function and here I'll go with a simple inline function of a short anonymous function you
could of course all use a named function instead.
But here all I want to do is I want to call keyboard dot dismiss.
That's a function this keyboard API which we're importing from risk native gives us and this does just
what the names adjusts.
So that now if we tap here we can type.
But if I tap somewhere else we dismissed a keyboard and that of course happens on both platforms.
I think that's a better user experience because that's what you would expect that you closed to keyboard
if you tap somewhere else on the screen.